# T-Ridership (http://t-ridership.com/)
T-Ridership is a novel web-based application, based on a hybrid optimized dynamic programming inspired by neural networks algorithm to optimize public transit for safety concerning COVID-19. Two main steps are taken in the analysis: the first is detecting high-density stations by input data normalization, and then, using these results, the T-Ridership tool automatically determines optimal station order to avoid overcrowded transit vehicles. Effectively, our proposed web tool helps public transit be safe to ride under risk of infections by reducing the density of riders on public transit vehicles and trip duration.  
# Instructions for Running T-Ridership
T-Ridership employs two methods. The first method calculates the number of passengers on a route when only passenger statistics at each station are available without knowing their origin and destination. In other words, this method uses the number of passengers entering and exiting each station without information on each passenger's specific origin and destination or the number of stations they travel through. The second method is designed to be used when the number of passengers and their specific origin and destination are known. This method involves creating an n × n matrix, where n is the number of stations on a route. The matrix contains input data consisting of columns that show the number of passengers exiting different stations from a specific origin and rows that show the number of exit passengers from diverse origins but traveling to a particular destination. The last column of the matrix indicates the number of passengers transiting between two consecutive stations.
# First Method: Running the app without details of passenger statistics
"Enter" represents the total number of passengers entering each station, "Exit" represents the total number of passengers exiting each station, and "Transfer" represents the total number of passengers transiting between two stations. For example, in the given sample, at station 5, there are twelve passengers in the vehicle from previous stations, fourteen passengers enter the vehicle, and seven people exit the vehicle. The remaining balance would be twenty-one passengers, which exceeds the fixed maximum capacity of twenty passengers. Therefore, Run1 skips station 5, and the passengers transfer to Run2.
# Second Method: running the app with details of passenger statistics
The second method involves knowing the number of passengers with their specific origin and destination by creating an n × n matrix, where n is the number of stations on the route. The matrix contains input data consisting of columns that show the number of passengers exiting different stations from a specific origin, and rows that show the number of exit passengers from diverse origins but traveling to a particular destination. The last column of the matrix indicates the number of passengers transiting between two consecutive stations. For example, according to the sample data, at station 1, seven passengers entered the transit vehicle. However, since station 5 exceeds the fixed maximum capacity, Run1 skips station 5, and the number of passengers going from station 1 to station 5 is not considered in the calculation (one passenger). The output shows that the total number of passengers using Run1 is six. The same process repeats at other stations (passengers entering stations 2, 3, and 4 and traveling to station 5 would be skipped and transferred to Run2).
